DOC-1416: REST API Tutorial Page (#1951)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/rs/references/rest-api/_index.md

If a user attempts to access an endpoint that is not allowed in their role, the request will fail with a [`403 Forbidden`](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-403-forbidden) status code. For more details on which user roles can access certain endpoints, see [Permissions]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/permissions">}}).

### Certificates

The Redis Enterprise Software REST API uses [Self-signed certificates]({{<relref "/rs/security/certificates">}}) to ensure the product is secure. When you use the default self-signed certificates, the HTTPS requests will fail with `SSL certificate problem: self signed certificate` unless you turn off SSL certificate verification. The examples in this tutorial turn off SSL certificate verification.

## Ports

All calls must be made over SSL to port 9443. For the API to work, port 9443 must be exposed to incoming traffic or mapped to a different port.

If you are using a [Redis Enterprise Software Docker image]({{<relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/get-started-docker">}}), run the following command to start the Docker image with port 9443 exposed:

```sh
docker run -p 9443:9443 redislabs/redis
```

> ## JSON Requests

Reviewer: Also, maybe you should go ahead and move this down below the request/response headers section and before the response types/error codes.
```suggestion
## JSON requests and responses
```

## Headers

### Requests

Redis Enterprise REST API requests support the following HTTP headers:

| Header | Supported/Required Values |
|--------|---------------------------|
| Accept | `application/json` |
| Content-Length | Length (in bytes) of request message |
| Content-Type | `application/json` (required for PUT or POST requests) |

If the client specifies an invalid header, the request will fail with a [`400 Bad Request`](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-400-bad-request) status code.

### Responses

Redis Enterprise REST API responses support the following HTTP headers:

| Header | Supported/Required Values |
|--------|---------------------------|
| Content-Type | `application/json` |
| Content-Length | Length (in bytes) of response message |

## Response types and error codes

> [HTTP Status Codes](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-status-codes) describe the result of an API request. This can be `200 OK` if the server accepted the request, or it can be one of many error codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[HTTP status codes](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-status-codes) indicate the result of an API request. This can be `200 OK` if the server accepted the request, or it can be one of many error codes.
```

The most common responses for a Redis Enterprise API request are:

| Response | Condition/Required handling |
|----------|-----------------------------|
| [200 OK](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-200-ok) | Success |
| [400 Bad Request](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-400-bad-request) | The request failed, generally due to a typo or other mistake. |
| [401 Unauthorized](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-401-unauthorized) | The request failed because the authentication information was missing or incorrect. |
| [403 Forbidden](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-403-forbidden) | The user cannot access the specified [URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier). |
| [404 Not Found](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-404-not-found) | The [URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) does not exist. |

> | [503 Service Unavailable](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-503-service-unavailable) | The node is not responding, or is not a memeber of a cluster. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [503 Service Unavailable](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-503-service-unavailable) | The node is not responding or is not a member of the cluster. |
```

> | [505&nbsp;HTTP&nbsp;Version&nbsp;Not&nbsp;Supported](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-505-http-version-not-suppor) | An unsupported `x-api-version` was used. See [Versions](#versions). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [505&nbsp;HTTP&nbsp;Version&nbsp;Not&nbsp;Supported](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-505-http-version-not-suppor) | An unsupported `x-api-version` was used. See [versions](#versions). |
```

> Some endpoints may have different response codes. The request page of these endpoints document these special cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some endpoints return different response codes. The request references for these endpoints document these special cases.
```
